Doctors Learning to code?
==========================

#####My thoughts

>Last weekend I helped organise [The Digital Doctor Conference](http://thedigitaldoc.co.uk) in London. This was an opportunity for doctors to come and learn more about technology and learn some of the basics of coding and web applications. The conference went really well, and lots of the attendees said how much they enjoyed learning about software development...

this is how Jeremy Walker's excellent blog post starts 

however in the following paragraphs Jeremy talks about a debate that a seethy undertone of snobbery and condesention that I think is totally misguided.

and I too joined him


This is [Why Doctors Should Learn to Code](http://www.ihid.co.uk/blog/why-doctors-should-learn-to-code/ "TITLE")

[This link](http://example.net/) has no title attribute.


The first tweet.

 In this article Jemery \



Currently I am doing a lot of new things. Something are

Comparing a surgeon performing an amputaton to a doctor writing an web app to store a list of their favourite hospital canteens is unequal.

I am sure that no one at our conference thought that they were going to solve a huge

It takes bold and gutsy people who are prepared to go against the grain, learn as much as they can 

There is no reason to believe that, given a reasonable baseline of intelligence that anyone can learn anything includeing how to perform an amputation. It's not conceptually difficult. 

Difficult concepts appear in all discaplins but what seperates doctors from 

Who has seen the TV show 'Faking It'?


I truly believe

in unequal.

The comparison between 

No doctor at that conference 

and considering how well went with the national project for it I submise that some of the fantastic people I met last weekend would have stood a good chance of bettering them.